---
layout: post
title:  "Pig-o-tron"
date:   2013-12-21 21:13:00
---

I wrote this thing for my sister for xmas. It's a stuffed pig. Inside it I have stuffed an old, cracked-screen iPhone 4. I've pre-recorded a bunch of (horrible, generally insulting, hopefully funny) phrases that it will play when you shake it. It's the simplest iOS app I've ever written. If I have time, I'll give it the ability to recieve push notifications so that I can make it talk whenever I want. I'm pretty compressed on time, though, so I'll probably hold off.


Brief rant: it's pretty insane that in order to make this thing for my sister I have to stuff an *iPhone* into a stuffed animal. That in turn gives it plenty of drawbacks, like the fact that you have to keep it plugged in. I searched all over the place for an off-the-shelf component that could do this, and while approximately 500000 cheapo kits will let you record a message onto some flash storage and push a button to play it, none of them let you record multiple sounds. Bananas. I also considered building it with an Arduino, which would have the advantage of letting me throw a few 9V batteries on it and have it be able to run for a really long time. Given my general lack of experience with Arduino/hardware programming, though, I think I would have had about a 0% chance of success, especially given that I'm racing to get this done before flying home in 48 hours. iOS is cool, but goddamn this feels like overkill.


Anyways the source is [here]. If you want to make your own thing, just stick a bunch of .wav files in the bundle directory and when you shake the phone it'll play one of them at random. Then cut open a stuffed animal and unceremoniously cram it in there. I might add a miniature speaker so that I can play sounds directly out of the pig's mouth, but I'm running out of space in there.

Oh, and [this] is the pig I found on Amazon.

Woo!

[here]: https://github.com/jflinter/Pigotron
[this]: http://www.amazon.com/Melissa-Doug-Sweater-Sweetie-Pig/dp/B007EA51HQ/ref=sr_1_14?ie=UTF8&qid=1387679417&sr=8-14&keywords=stuffed+pig