---
layout: post
title:  "Sanity"
date:   2014-1-14 10:30:00
---

Yesterday I got back from a 3-week vacation, which I'm pretty sure is the longest break I've taken since I got out of school ~2.5 years ago. It came on the heels of 2013, which was probably the year in which I've worked the hardest. I made a point of really trying to hit the "reset" button during the break - I didn't bring a computer, tried not to check my email (and when I did it was mostly triage mode, using Mailbox), and really changed my sleep schedule (mostly for logistical reasons, as we did a lot of skiing and hiking, which in the winter have a pretty narrow daylight window).  

Suffice to say it was an excellent vacation. Maybe the best I've ever taken. At first, I worried about whether or not I'd ever be able to go back to work. Fortunately for my bank account, my thinking evolved somewhat along the way. The reality is, I like my job a lot. I even like working really hard at my job a lot. However, there were aspects of how I had been living/working that were simply unmaintainable in the long (or even medium) term. I wasn't sleeping normally or well, I was basically staring at a screen from the moment I woke up until the moment I went to sleep, and I wasn't exercising. While the way I was working was supporting those poor lifestyle choices, looking at it now there's definitely a way to keep shipping quality software while living a much healthier lifestyle.  

First, a rough summary of my typical day around last December. I'd wake up around 10 am. I'd sit in bed for about 20 minutes checking email and reading Twitter/Hacker News on my phone. I'd then hurriedly get dressed, shower if I had time, and race to work to try and make our 11am stand-up on time (~50% success rate if I'm being generous). I'd almost never eat breakfast. Then I'd spend about an hour continuing to read email/surf the Internet at work. Really things would only start clicking until after lunch (~2pm), when I'd start programming in earnest. I'd probably peak in programming focus around 8pm. I'd usually leave the office around 11pm-midnight, after either eating Seamless at the office or getting something on the way home (I haven't cooked a meal at home in over a year). I'd maybe talk to my girlfriend if she was still awake, or watch Netflix until 1-2 am, then go to sleep.  

The biggest things that frustrate me about that schedule are the unfocused bits. So much time is wasted in that schedule. It was taking me hours to really get in the "zone", meaning I was spending huge amounts of time in the office not really getting a lot done. As such I'd stay late to try and overcompensate for that, which would just exacerbate my sleep issues and ultimately contribute to the negative cycle.  

Fortunately, I think the whole thing can be fixed without having to go through electroshock therapy. The biggest areas of focus I want to make are in the morning and at night. So here's what I'm thinking is my new routine: wake up at 9am every morning. I'm going to have a strict no-cell-phone-in-bed polocy from here on out. I'll take a shower and get to work by 10am. Between 10-11am I'll do all of the Internet goofing off/meta-work (reading email and checking blogs/Twitter/etc) that would normally dominate my morning and early afternoon. I'll also eat breakfast during that time. That way at 11am I can really begin to focus on accomplishing things for the day. I'll work hard until 7pm and then leave. Between 7pm and midnight I hope to do things like exercise, read/write, cook meals, hang out with my girlfriend, attend meetups, and hang out with friends. I'm then going to try and get to sleep by midnight every night. I'm going to attempt to not use technology for the last hour of every day (although I may have to make a Kindle exception).  

I think the added focus, rigor in schedule, and (hopefully) peace of mind this will create will enable me to get as much done at work in those reduced hours than what I was doing previously. I think this should be a fun and extremely rewarding lifestyle change.